Karmic Collections Rules

Objective:
 Be the first player to reach 10 points by collecting coins and sets of 
 dice/cards.

Setup:
 Each player gets their 2 coloured pawns, 3 dice and 3 chits. Shuffle the deck and deal out cards until each player has a hand of 3.


Card Rules:
 Unlike most games, you play with your hand face up. If you have any pairs or 
 straights they can be set in front of you for points. If an action causes another player to steal/swap cards from you, you may flip over and mix up cards that not part of any set to conceal them in your hand. (example: if you had two aces, an 8, and a 6 you may put the 8 and 6 into your hand to conceal them from the stealing player. That player could choose to take from your set cards or pick blindly from your hand)
 
 A pair is worth 1 points + 1 per extra card added to the pair. (example if you 
had four queens it is worth 3 points)
 
 A straight can be of size 2 or greater. It is worth 1 point + 1 per extra card 
added to the straight. (example if you had 4,5,6 it is worth 2 points)

Dice Rules:
 When you receive your initial 3 dice, roll them all once to lock in their values. When you play an action that lets you gain a new die, roll it immediately to lock in its value. Dice cannot be rerolled once locked.
 
 Each pair of matching value die you own is worth 1 point + 1 per extra die of 
 that value. (example: if you had three 1s, two 5s, and one 6 = 3 points)

Coin Rules:
 Each coin is worth 1 point.

Chit Rules:
 Chits are not worth points. They are used to pay for certain actions. If a player does not have enough chits to resolve an action, it cannot be selected.


How to Play:
 After initial setup, players score their initial dice and cards. The player with the least points goes first. In the case of a tie, chose the first player randomly from those who are tied for least score. On your turn you get to play 2 actions, but the twist is that another player (your karmic partner) will choose your second action.
 
 First declare which player is your karmic partner for the turn and set forth
 their coloured chit in your pile to indicate you have used them. At the end of turn you will flip the coloured chit over. A player can only be chosen if you have their coloured chit face up. If all player chits that you own are flipped down, you flip them all up at the start of your turn. (this is so that you must partner with each other player once before partnering with the same person again)
 
 Play your first pawn on one of the 8 actions (split into 4 on light and dark 
 side). Perform the action as indicated (see actions rules). Your karmic partner then places your second pawn on another action from the opposite side of light/dark. (example: if you chose light action 1, your partner must pick one of the 4 dark actions for your second pawn). Perform the action for your second pawn as if you had placed it yourself.

 At the end of your turn you play any cards/dice gained and tally up your new score. Flip the coloured token for your karmic partner over to indicate they have been used.

 Reclaim your pawns and pass the turn token in the clockwise direction.


Action Rules:
 Actions are always resolved from left to right in the text. If any part of the action cannot be performed (you have no cards/chits/etc) then it cannot be selected. Actions are always resolved as if the player holding the turn token chose them (when your karmic partner chooses your second action, it is as if you yourself put your second pawn there).

 Draw/Gain = Take from the deck or infinite bags in the middle of the board
 Give = Give one of the items you currently own to your karmic partner
 Steal = Take an item owned by your karmic partner
 Swap = Take an item from your karmic partner in exchange for a matching type of your own (ex: take 1 card, give them another card)

 Light Action 1: Draw 2 Cards / Give 1 Dice
 Light Action 2: Gain 1 Coin / Give 2 Chits
 Light Action 3: Gain 2 Dice / Give 1 Card
 Light Action 4: Draw 1 Card + Gain 1 Die / Give 1 Chit

 Dark Action 1: Steal 2 Cards / Give 1 Card + 1 Chit
 Dark Action 2: Steal 3 Chits / Karmic Partner gains 1 Die
 Dark Action 3: Swap 1 Die + Gain 1 Card / Give 1 Card
 Dark Action 4: Swap 1 Card + Gain 1 Die / Give 1 Die